
# The information age

> “Your work should speak for itself.” - unknown

You have entered graduate school in an amazing time. Most people are
walking around with more computational power in their pockets than
previous generations ever imagined possible. An internet browser now
gives you access to nearly all the accumulated knowledge of the human
species (and an unreasonable number of cat pictures). As an example to
how much has changed and how fast it’s happened, consider a [2000 paper
in Nature](https://www.nature.com/articles/21987) by Steve Lawrence and
C. Lee Giles titled, “Accessibility of information on the web.” The
authors open with the jaw dropping statistic that the internet is “800
million pages, encompassing about 6 terabytes of text data on about 3
million servers.” Fast forward to 2016, and Google claims to be aware of
[130 trillion
pages](https://searchengineland.com/googles-search-indexes-hits-130-trillion-pages-documents-263378)
across the web.

Put simply, we’ve never had more access to information than we do right
now. And it’s unlikely that there will be less available information in
the future.

**I know how the internet works–why are you telling me this?**

Because you need your work to be discoverable. You want collaborators,
future employers, other graduate students, and (most importantly) future
‘you’ to be able to find a catalog of what you’ve been doing all those
late nights in front of the computer.

**Isn’t that what my thesis/dissertation is for?**

I know it’s rude to answer a question with a question, but *how many
theses/dissertations have you read?* Ask around to your most
bibliophilic friends what their favorite thesis is, or what dissertation
they think everyone should read? Those documents serve a purpose, but
it’s not to make sure all of your hard work reaches a wide audience.

**What about peer-reviewed publications?**

The scientific journal industry is not looking out for your best
interests. They have a [clearly unethical business
model](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2011/aug/29/academic-publishers-murdoch-socialist),
even [big universities can’t afford their
prices](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2012/apr/24/harvard-university-journal-publishers-prices)
(which means less people reading your work), and they won’t
[compensate](https://whyevolutionistrue.wordpress.com/2011/09/01/the-racket-of-academic-publishing/)
you for your work.

One of the areas that has not kept up with these technological advances
is scientific journals. 

